Updates to communicate new raster output units (InVEST #1270) (#158)
natcap/invest.users-guide: source/en/sdr.rst

.. note:: The resolution of the output rasters will be the same as the resolution of the DEM provided as input.

> .. note:: The raster results of SDR are given as values *per hectare*. To convert the per hectare values to per pixel values, adjust by the size of your pixels relative to one hectare. For example: If *1 pixel = 900 m2*, then the conversion from metric tons per hectare (Mg/ha) to metric tons per pixel (Mg/px) would be: *(Mg/ha x 1/10000 ha/m2 x 900 m2/px)* or *(the per hectare value x (900/10000))*. The number will get smaller when the pixel size is smaller than a hectare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: The raster results of SDR are given as values *per hectare*. To convert the per hectare values to per pixel values, adjust by the size of your pixels relative to one hectare. For example: If *1 pixel = 900 m2*, then the conversion from metric tons per hectare (t/ha) to metric tons per pixel (t/pixel) would be: *(t/ha x 1/10000 ha/m2 x 900 m2/pixel)* or *(the per hectare value x (900/10000))*. The number will get smaller when the pixel size is smaller than a hectare.

```
Replaced `Mg` with `t` and spelled out "pixel".

* **[Workspace]** folder:

    * **Parameter log**: Each time the model is run, a text (.txt) file will be created in the Workspace. This file will list the parameter values and output messages for that run and will be named according to the service, the date and time, and the suffix. When contacting NatCap about errors in a model run, please include the parameter log.

>     * **rkls.tif** (type: raster; units: metric tons/hectare/year): Total potential soil loss in the original land cover from the RKLS equation. Equivalent to the soil loss for bare soil. (Eq. :eq:`usle`, without applying the :math:`C` or :math:`P` factors)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **rkls.tif** (type: raster; units: t/(ha*year)): Total potential soil loss in the original land cover from the RKLS equation. Equivalent to the soil loss for bare soil. (Eq. :eq:`usle`, without applying the :math:`C` or :math:`P` factors)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(hectare*year)" (or "metric tons/hectare/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG).  If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>     * **sed_export.tif** (type: raster; units: metric tons/hectare/year): The total amount of sediment exported from each pixel that reaches the stream. (Eq. :eq:`e_i`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **sed_export.tif** (type: raster; units: t/(ha*year)): The total amount of sediment exported from each pixel that reaches the stream. (Eq. :eq:`e_i`)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(hectare*year)" (or "metric tons/hectare/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG).  If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>     * **sed_deposition.tif** (type: raster; units: metric tons/hectare/year): The total amount of sediment deposited on the pixel from upslope sources as a result of trapping. (Eq. :eq:`ti`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **sed_deposition.tif** (type: raster; units: t/(ha*year)): The total amount of sediment deposited on the pixel from upslope sources as a result of trapping. (Eq. :eq:`ti`)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(hectare*year)" (or "metric tons/hectare/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG).  If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

    * **stream.tif** (type: raster): Stream network, created using flow direction and flow accumulation derived from the DEM and Threshold Flow Accumulation. Values of 1 represent streams, values of 0 are non-stream pixels. Compare this layer with a real-world stream map, and adjust the Threshold Flow Accumulation so that this map matches real-world streams as closely as possible. See the User Guide section :ref:`working-with-the-DEM` for more information.

    * **stream_and_drainage.tif** (type: raster): If a drainage layer is provided, this raster is the union of that layer with the calculated stream layer(Eq. :eq:`stream_and_drainage`). Values of 1 represent streams, values of 0 are non-stream pixels.

>     * **usle.tif** (type: raster; units: metric tons/hectare/year): Total potential soil loss in the original land cover calculated from the USLE equation. (Eq. :eq:`usle`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **usle.tif** (type: raster; units: t/(ha*year)): Total potential soil loss in the original land cover calculated from the USLE equation. (Eq. :eq:`usle`)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(hectare*year)" (or "metric tons/hectare/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG).  If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>     * **avoided_erosion.tif** (type: raster; units: metric tons/hectare/year): The contribution of vegetation to keeping soil from eroding from each pixel. (Eq. :eq:`aer_i`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **avoided_erosion.tif** (type: raster; units: t/(ha*year)): The contribution of vegetation to keeping soil from eroding from each pixel. (Eq. :eq:`aer_i`)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(hectare*year)" (or "metric tons/hectare/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG).  If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>     * **avoided_export.tif** (type: raster; units: metric tons/hectare/year): The contribution of vegetation to keeping erosion from entering a stream. This combines local/on-pixel sediment retention with trapping of erosion from upslope of the pixel.  (Eq. :eq:`aex_i`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **avoided_export.tif** (type: raster; units: t/(ha*year)): The contribution of vegetation to keeping erosion from entering a stream. This combines local/on-pixel sediment retention with trapping of erosion from upslope of the pixel.  (Eq. :eq:`aex_i`)

```

    * **watershed_results_sdr.shp**: Table containing biophysical values for each watershed, with fields as follows:

>         * **sed_export** (units: metric tons/watershed/year): Total amount of sediment exported to the stream per watershed. This should be compared to any observed sediment loading at the outlet of the watershed. Knowledge of the hydrologic regime in the watershed and the contribution of overland/sheetwash sediment to total sediment yield help adjust and calibrate this model. (Eq. :eq:`e` with sum calculated over the watershed area)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * **sed_export** (units: t/(watershed*year)): Total amount of sediment exported to the stream per watershed. This should be compared to any observed sediment loading at the outlet of the watershed. Knowledge of the hydrologic regime in the watershed and the contribution of overland/sheetwash sediment to total sediment yield help adjust and calibrate this model. (Eq. :eq:`e` with sum calculated over the watershed area)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(watershed*year)" (or "metric tons/watershed/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG).  If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>         * **usle_tot** (units: metric tons/watershed/year): Total amount of potential soil loss in each watershed calculated by the USLE equation. (Sum of USLE from :eq:`usle` over the watershed area)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * **usle_tot** (units: t/(watershed*year)): Total amount of potential soil loss in each watershed calculated by the USLE equation. (Sum of USLE from :eq:`usle` over the watershed area)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(watershed*year)" (or "metric tons/watershed/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG). If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>         * **avoid_exp** (units: metric tons/watershed/year): The sum of avoided export in the watershed. (Sum of :math:`AEX_i` from :eq:`aex_i` over the watershed area)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * **avoid_exp** (units: t/(watershed*year)): The sum of avoided export in the watershed. (Sum of :math:`AEX_i` from :eq:`aex_i` over the watershed area)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(watershed*year)" (or "metric tons/watershed/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG). If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>         * **avoid_eros** (units: metric tons/watershed/year): The sum of avoided local erosion in the watershed (Sum of :math:`AER_i` from :eq:`aer_i` over the watershed area)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * **avoid_eros** (units: t/(watershed*year)): The sum of avoided local erosion in the watershed (Sum of :math:`AER_i` from :eq:`aer_i` over the watershed area)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(watershed*year)" (or "metric tons/watershed/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG). If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

>         * **sed_dep** (units: metric tons/watershed/year): Total amount of sediment deposited on the landscape in each watershed, which does not enter the stream. (Sum of :math:`T_i` from :eq:`ti` over the watershed area)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * **sed_dep** (units: t/(watershed*year)): Total amount of sediment deposited on the landscape in each watershed, which does not enter the stream. (Sum of :math:`T_i` from :eq:`ti` over the watershed area)

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(watershed*year)" (or "metric tons/watershed/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG). If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

    * **d_up.tif**: upslope factor of the index of connectivity (Eq. :eq:`d_up`)

>     * **e_prime.tif**: sediment downslope deposition, the amount of sediment from a given pixel that does not reach a stream (Eq. :eq:`eprime`). Units: metric tons/hectare/year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **e_prime.tif**: sediment downslope deposition, the amount of sediment from a given pixel that does not reach a stream (Eq. :eq:`eprime`). Units: t/(ha*year).

```

Reviewer 2: My usual inclination is to spell things out as much as possible, and consistently. So personally I'd be more in favor of "metric tons/(hectare*year)" (or "metric tons/hectare/year", which reads a little more clearly to me, but let's pick one way of writing it and do it consistently throughout the UG). If I was a beginner with the models, I'm not sure I'd know what "t" stands for.

Reviewer: I am convinced and concur with Stacie that it's best to spell out to remove any doubt.

Following is an outline of the general steps that are done to compare modeled results against observed sediment loading data:

> 1. Gather observed data for sediment loading at your watershed outlet of interest, process it however needed and convert to units of metric tons per year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Gather observed data for sediment loading at your watershed outlet of interest, process it however needed, and convert to units of metric tons per year.

```
Added Oxford comma.

Author: I appreciate your commitment to the Oxford comma! 😃

> 2. Do a sensitivity analysis of the input parameters, to determine which parameters have the greatest effect on modeling results. This is most often done with LULC-based parameters (like USLE C) and "global" parameters (like *IC0* and *k*). It can also involve spatial inputs, but this is less frequently done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Do a sensitivity analysis of the input parameters to determine which have the greatest influences on modeling results. This is most often done with LULC-based parameters (e.g.: USLE C) and "global" parameters (e.g.: *IC0* and *k*). It can also involve spatial inputs, but this is less frequently done.

```
